docs: add README and CONTRIBUTING docs (#1)
canonical/charmhub-listing-review: README.md

Anyone can publish a charm to Charmhub, and when first published it will be
privately listed. To change the charm to be publicly listed requires passing a
lightweight review process to ensure charm consistency and quality. This is a
one-off process (in most circumstances), not done for each revision of a charm.

Reviewing charms encourages the involvement of the community. "Community"
refers to individuals and organisations creating or contributing to charms,
Juju, and the wider charming ecosystem. The goals of the review are:

1. Be transparent about the capabilities and qualities of a charm.
2. Ensure a consistent level of quality for users of charms.

A listing review is *not* code review. The reviewer may be looking at some of
the charm code, and may have comments on it, but the listing review is not a
review of the architecture or design of the charm, and is not a line-by-line
review of the charm code.

This repository contains:

* Issues that are requests for changing a charm to be publicly listed.
* Infrastructure to support the review process (such as automatically assigning
  reviews, tools to check some criteria automatically, and so on).

## Steps of a review

> 1. The author requests a review for *one* charm at a time with all prerequisites
>    using a [listing request issue](https://github.com/canonical/charmhub-listing-review/issues/new)
>    in this repository.

Author: ```suggestion
1. When the author is confident that the charm will pass review, they request a review, for *one*
   charm at a time, with all prerequisites using a
   [listing request issue](https://github.com/canonical/charmhub-listing-review/issues/new)
   in this repository.
```

2. The reviewer checks if the prerequisites are met and the pull request is
   ready.
3. The public review is carried out as a conversation on the pull request.
4. The review concludes if the charm is 'publication ready', and if so the store
   team is asked to list the charm.

The result of the process is that:
* if the review is successful, the charm is switched to listed mode, or
* if the review is unsuccessful, the charm does not reach the required criteria
  and the charm remains unlisted, until the issues are resolved.

## Get ready

Read the [documentation](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/ops/latest/howto/request-public-listing/)
for detailed information about publicly listed charms, the review process, and
the criteria for public listing.

You can also use the tooling from this repository to see how close the charm is
to passing a review. Note that some of the criteria can be checked automatically
(and those will be when running the tool), but others will be manually checked
by the reviewer (so you will need to evaluate readiness in those areas
yourself).

> ## Get started
> 
> If the charm is ready for review,
> [open an issue in this repository](https://github.com/canonical/charmhub-listing-review/issues/new).
> 
> ## Next steps
> 
> - Read our [Code of conduct](https://ubuntu.com/community/code-of-conduct) and
>   join our [Matrix chat](https://matrix.to/#/#charmhub-ops:ubuntu.com) to get help polishing your charm or
>   with the public listing review process. We also have a [Discourse forum](https://discourse.charmhub.io/) for longer-form questions, updates, and tips.
> - Read our [CONTRIBUTING guide](https://github.com/canonical/charmhub-listing-review/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
>   and contribute!

Author: ```suggestion
## Next steps

If the charm is ready for review,
[open an issue in this repository](https://github.com/canonical/charmhub-listing-review/issues/new).

Or:

- Read our [Code of conduct](https://ubuntu.com/community/code-of-conduct) and
  join our [Matrix chat](https://matrix.to/#/#charmhub-charmdev:ubuntu.com)  to get
  help polishing your charm or with the public listing review process. We also have a
  [Discourse forum](https://discourse.charmhub.io/) for longer-form questions, updates,
  and tips.
- Read our [CONTRIBUTING guide](https://github.com/canonical/charmhub-listing-review/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and contribute!
```

one-off process (in most circumstances), not done for each revision of a charm.

Reviewing charms encourages the involvement of the community. The community
refers to individuals and organisations creating or contributing to charms,
Juju, and the wider charming ecosystem. The goals of the review are:

1. Be transparent about the capabilities and qualities of a charm.
2. Ensure a common level of quality.

A listing review is *not* code review. The reviewer may be looking at some of
the charm code, and may have comments on it, but the listing review is not a
review of the architecture or design of the charm, and is not a line-by-line
review of the charm code.

This repository contains:

* Issues that are requests for changing a charm to be publicly listed.
* Infrastructure to support the review process (such as automatically assigning
  reviews, tools to check some criteria automatically, and so on).

## Steps of a review

1. The author requests a review for *one* charm at a time with all prerequisites
   using a [listing request issue](https://github.com/canonical/charmhub-listing-review/issues/new)
   in this repository.

> 2. The reviewer checks if the prerequisites are met and the pull request is

Author: Like the suggestion above, or with more detail? I'd like to avoid too much duplication between this and [the ops how-to guide](https://canonical-ubuntu-documentation-library--1989.com.readthedocs.build/ops/1989/howto/request-public-listing/), although I do think some is necessary. It feels like the README should be the shorter one, but I'm ok adjusting if you'd rather it was the other way around.

> 2. The reviewer checks if the prerequisites are met and the pull request is

Reviewer: I agree, the README should be shorter than the how-to guide. It's just that a PR is mentioned in step 2, and this is the first time it's mentioned. The how-to guide doesn't mention a PR either, so now I'm wondering, did you mean to write "issue" instead of "pull request" in step 2?

> 2. The reviewer checks if the prerequisites are met and the pull request is

Author: Argh, yes, thanks! My original plan was pull requests, and I was sure that I had searched out and changed them all to "issue" but apparently not :disappointed: .

> 2. The reviewer checks if the prerequisites are met and the pull request is

Author: ```suggestion
2. The reviewer checks if the prerequisites are met and the issue is
```

   ready.
3. The public review is carried out as a conversation on the pull request.
4. The review concludes if the charm is 'publication ready', and if so the store
   team is asked to list the charm.

The result of the process is that:
* if the review is successful, the charm is switched to listed mode, or
* if the review is unsuccessful, the charm does not reach the required criteria
  and the charm remains unlisted, until the issues are resolved.

## Get ready

Read the [documentation](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/ops/latest/howto/request-public-listing/)
for detailed information about publicly listed charms, the review process, and
the criteria for public listing.

You can also use the tooling from this repository to see how close the charm is
to passing a review. Note that some of the criteria can be checked automatically
(and those will be when running the tool), but others will be manually checked
by the reviewer (so you will need to evaluate readiness in those areas
yourself).

## Get started

If the charm is ready for review,
[open an issue in this repository](https://github.com/canonical/charmhub-listing-review/issues/new).

## Next steps

> - Read the [docs](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/ops/latest/).

Author: I was trying to keep some consistency with the general README format, even though this repo isn't primarily for code. I wasn't sure whether I should keep this or not - it does have the actual docs on the process, but those are also linked elsewhere. I'm fine removing it.

- Read our [Code of conduct](https://ubuntu.com/community/code-of-conduct) and

>   join our [chat](https://matrix.to/#/#charmhub-ops:ubuntu.com) and
>   [forum](https://discourse.charmhub.io/) to get help polishing your charm or
>   with the public listing review process.

Reviewer: Should we use a similar recommendation to the Ops homepage? Something like:

```suggestion
  join our [Matrix chat](https://matrix.to/#/#charmhub-ops:ubuntu.com) to get help polishing your charm or
with the public listing review process. We also have a [Discourse forum](https://discourse.charmhub.io/) for longer-form questions, updates, and tips.
```
